Israel ramping up
its bombardment of Gaza
and tonight acknowledging
it was behind a deadly blast
outside the al-Shifa
hospital in Gaza City.
Now, we want to warn you,
the images we're going to show you,
they are graphic
as they've been coming in,
according to multiple videos
that CNN has Geolocated.
We you can see through here.
Bloodied bodies
just strewn across the ground
near an ambulance.
A spokesman for the Hamas
run health ministry claims
authorities had organized
a medical convoy from the hospital
to the Rafah crossing.
That spokesperson says
that the ambulances
as the
when the ambulances
started to move south, they were hit.
And a director of the hospital
tells Al Jazeera
this medical teams
and paramedics lost their lives.
Regrettably,
some of the wounded lost their lives.
Tonight, the International Committee
of the Red Cross confirms
it was aware of a convoy
that would be carrying patients
from northern Gaza to the south.
But according to the Israeli military,
it struck an ambulance
that was being used by Hamas.
Here's the quote from the IDF.
An IDF aircraft struck
an ambulance
that was identified
by forces as being used
by a Hamas
terrorist cell
in close proximity
to their position in the battle zone.
A number of Hamas terrorist operatives
were killed in the strike.
However, it
also appears
civilians were also killed and injured.
And that is why today, Secretary of State
Tony Blinken on his third
trip to Israel
since the October 7th
Hamas terror
attack, pressed Israel's leaders
to do more
to protect civilians in Gaza
and allow more humanitarian aid
to enter the 25 mile long strip.
That public request
was rebuffed
by Israel's Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu,
saying Israel objects
to any temporary cease fire
unless Hamas frees all 241 hostages.
So that means more strikes in Gaza.
And tonight,
we have another dispatch
from an aid worker, Mahmoud Shalaby.
He's been sending updates
to OUTFRONT from northern Gaza.
The focus on the Israeli
offensive tonight, Shalaby describes
what he witnessed
after a blast near his home.
Many fathers
carrying their daughters
and their children
and crying like babies.
And I saw one child. One child
who's who's about 12 years old,
who was saying, I did nothing.
I did nothing.
Civilians saying the very same thing
on both sides
of the Israel-Hamas war now.
Jeremy Diamond is OUTFRONT
live along the Israel-Gaza border for us.
Melissa Bell is in Cairo, Egypt.
I want to start with Jeremy.
Jeremy,
what more are you hearing about this
strike on the
in an ambulance
on an ambulance in Gaza City?
Well, first of all,
I mean,
you saw
those images, scenes
of absolute devastation
outside al-Shifa
hospital where this convoy of ambulances
was apparently heading south.
Palestinian health authorities
say that this convoy of ambulances
was carrying
wounded individuals
who were heading to the Rafah crossing
with Egypt
in order to get those wounded
individuals evacuated.
As we have seen
over the last several days,
some wounded have been allowed
to leave into Egypt.
But Israel paints
a very different picture here Kate.
They say that
these ambulances
were being used by Hamas operatives
and that it targeted those ambulances
for that reason,
saying that it killed
several Hamas militants in this strike.
Israel also points out
that it believes
that Hamas has used ambulances
in the past to transport
not only Hamas militants,
but also some of its weaponry.
CNN cannot, of course,
independently verify
those claims in Israel
so far has not provided
any evidence for that.
But what we do know,
Kate, is the toll of casualties
here, according to the Hamas
run Palestinian Ministry of Health.
15 people were killed in this strike,
50 others were wounded.
The Palestinian Ministry of Health, again
says that injured people
were being carried in these ambulances.
It also says that it requested
the International Red Cross
to accompany the convoy.
The Red Cross confirming
that it received that request,
but says that it did not take part
in this convoy.
Nonetheless,
this is raising more questions
about Israel's tactics in this war.
Following the strikes
earlier this week
in the densely populated
Jabaliya refugee camp.
Meanwhile, Kate, Hamas
is continuing to target Israeli
towns and cities
targeting
population centers, civilians, targets
in Israel.
Earlier today, Kate,
our team was very close
to one of those strikes.
A rocket came in about 100 meters away
from where a number of journalists,
including my team,
was positioned in their roads.
And I want to show you this video shot
by my photojournalist, Mathias.
Some you can hear the power of that
rocket coming in. Listen.
And Kate, following that strike,
we were actually able to see the crater
where that rocket made impact
and damage several vehicles
that actually landed.
At least
one of those two rockets
landed in the courtyard
of a kindergarten.
There were no children,
of course, there at the time.
School is has been closed
since theroad for the time being.
But obviously, as you
know, Kate, the Iron Dome missile
defense system takes out the overwhelming
majority of these rockets,
but it does not take them all out.
Kate. Jeremy, thank you so much.
Jeremy Diamond in Israel for us.
OUTFRONT with me
now, Lieutenant Colonel
Jonathan Conricus.
He's the International spokesman
for the IDF.
Thank you so much for coming on.
What more can you tell us
about the strikes on the ambulance?
Why did you strike so near a hospital?
Hi.
Thank you for having me.
There's fighting ongoing.
We are at war against Hamas
in northern Gaza and all over Gaza.
But the focusing
on the northern Gaza Strip.
Our forces saw terrorists
using ambulances
as a vehicle to move around.
They perceived a threat and accordingly,
we struck that ambulance.
I must say that this is not the first
and not the hundredth time
that Hamas operatives,
including senior leaders,
make use illegal use
of ambulances on the battlefield.
They use them as their taxis
in order to get from one place
to another, specifically seniors.
And it is not the first time
they did it in 2014.
They are doing it again.
And we are well within our legal rights
according to the laws of armed conflict.
Once they use it
and we perceive it as a threat to attack,
who in that strike?
Who can you.
Who was taken out?
I mean, were they high level
operatives within Hamas?
Do you have
the names of who was taken out
or who was being targeted?
No, this wasn't a targeted
killing of someone.
This was during combat.
Our troops saw
that they were using the ambulance
and trying to
either escape or attack using that.
And that is why they were struck.
Hopefully, we'll be able to provide
intelligence and more footage
and information about it.
But we have other information
which were
also able to show
and have shared with CNN and others
of how ambulances have been seen.
And we have caught it on camera.
Ambulances have been seen in
Hamas locations, Hamas camps
where they are
next to the locations
of their headquarters.
And they are used
not to transport wounded,
but in order to get senior
and other commanders
from one place to another
without the risk of being followed
or attacked by the IDF.
The numbers from the Hamas
run Ministry of Health coming out
are 15 killed,
and I think it was 50 wounded.
There's no distinction
in those numbers
of who was civilian and who was,
you know, connected with Hamas.
Do you know a combatant or a terrorist?
Yes. It's okay to say those words.
Do you know?
I know I see a lot of
pictures of young men.
I do not see weapons.
Maybe there were conveniently
hidden before TV crews came there to
for this whole orchestrated event.
But the bottom line,
we know that there were Hamas
operatives there.
I don't have the finite number,
but I am certain that there were Hamas
activist terrorists
there who were trying to use an ambulance
in order to facilitate their movement
while fighting was ongoing.
Colonel, today earlier today,
I spoke with an American politician
who supports Israel and supports Israel's
right to defend itself.
He's also on
the Armed Services Committee,
and he says that the bombing of innocent
civilians needs to stop
and the way he said it is today.
And here's what he said to me.
He said,
I don't think if you're
using hundreds of civilians
as a human shield,
meaning Hamas,
and you have one terrorist,
that that justifies a bombing,
why not go about
this in a more surgical way?
Yeah, I don't think that that is ever,
ever the case. One for one.
That doesn't seem logical for me at all.
And that doesn't at all
compute with the calculations
that I am aware of that the IDF does.
It would have to be Yassin
while and Mohammed together
to warrant
that kind of collateral damage.
That is not the case.
The sad reality
is that we have asked civilians
to evacuate, including in the pictures
that you're showing
from different areas in Gaza.
We have asked them to evacuate
because we know that Hamas
is trying to use them
as their human shields.
We know that it will be dangerous.
And we have told them
this isn't a safe place to be. Go south.
Those that have stayed
have done it at their own agency,
which is regrettable.
I'm sure that some have been forced
to stay by Hamas, which is appalling,
and a war crime
preventing civilians to flee to safety
by Hamas is an active war crime,
which they should be criticized
and called out for doing.
And I don't think
that the focus should be on
what Israel is doing
in order to defend ourselves.
And please let me say that this started